docs: update faq (#22)
CERNDocumentServer/docs-cds-rdm: docs/faq.md

    - **Prefix:** `10.17181`
    - **Registration:** All DOIs are registered with [DataCite](https://datacite.org)
    - **Assignment:** Automatic upon publication (or can be reserved in advance)

    !!! tip "Learn More"

        See the [Upload](deposit/upload.md) documentation to learn how to manage DOIs for your uploads.

??? question "What is a DOI?"

    A DOI is a persistent, globally unique identifier for digital objects that:

    - Provides a stable, permanent link to your publication
    - Follows the format `https://doi.org/10.xxxx/xxxxx`
    - Enables reliable citation and discovery across platforms
    - Is recognized worldwide as the standard for scholarly work

## Authors & ORCID

??? question "Why don't contributors appear in the citation?"

    Only **Creators** are included in the generated citation. **Contributors** are intentionally excluded — they record people who contributed to the work but should not be credited as authors for citation purposes.

    If a person must appear in the citation, add them as a **Creator** instead. You can still assign them a specific role (e.g. Editor) in the creator form.

> ??? question "Why can't I find an author by ORCID in the deposit form?"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
??? question "Why can't I find an author by ORCID™ iD in the deposit form?"
```

>     The author search does not query orcid.org directly. It looks up an internal names vocabulary that is populated from the CERN HR database and a periodic ORCID harvest. If an author does not appear in the results, their ORCID may not have been imported yet.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    We update the authors' list periodically, if an author does not appear in the results, their ORCID may not have been imported yet.
```

I think we could skip the technical details, especially because most of the users wouldn't know what ORCID harvest is.

>     The author search does not query orcid.org directly. It looks up an internal names vocabulary that is populated from the CERN HR database and a periodic ORCID harvest. If an author does not appear in the results, their ORCID may not have been imported yet.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    The author search does not query orcid.org directly. It looks up an internal names vocabulary that is populated from the CERN Auth database and a periodic ORCID™ harvest. If an author does not appear in the results, their ORCID™ may not have been imported yet.
```

    In that case, please contact the [CDS support team](https://cern.service-now.com/service-portal?id=service_element&name=CDS-Service).

## Access & Sharing

> ??? question "How do I allow modifications of a record?"

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
??? question "How do I allow my colleague to edit my record?"
```
to make it more real use-case based, a question with which user can relate

>     Click the **Share** button on the deposit form or record page, go to the **People** (or **Groups**) tab, search for the user or e-group, and set the permission to **Can edit**. You can also generate a shareable link with **Can edit** permission from the **Links** tab.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    Click the **Share** button on the deposit form or record page, go to the **People** (or **Groups**) tab, search for the user or e-group, and set the permission to **Can edit**. 
```

I would give it a separate section for shearable links, something like "how can I allow a researcher from outside CERN access my restricted record?"
In that section it is extremely important to mention (preferably in red) that they should set expiration date on those links (and explain why)

>     Click the **Share** button on the deposit form or record page, go to the **People** (or **Groups**) tab, search for the user or e-group, and set the permission to **Can edit**. You can also generate a shareable link with **Can edit** permission from the **Links** tab.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Click the **Share** button on the deposit form or record page, go to the **People** (or **Groups**) tab, search for the user or group, and set the permission to **Can edit**. You can also generate a shareable link with **Can edit** permission from the **Links** tab.
```

    See [Access & Share](deposit/access-share.md) for full details.

> ??? question "How do I access other versions of a record?"

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
??? question "How do see older or newer versions of a record?"
```

>     All versions of a record are listed in the **Versions** panel on the record's landing page. Click any version to navigate to it directly, or use the **Copy latest version link** button to get a permanent link that always resolves to the most recent version.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    All versions of a record are listed in the **Versions** panel on the record's page. Click any version to navigate to it directly, or use the **Copy latest version link** button to get a permanent link that always resolves to the most recent version.
```

    ![Versions panel on a record landing page](images/record_versions.png){ width="400" }

## Editing Records

??? question "Can I edit a record after submitting it for review or after it is published?"

    **While under review**, both metadata and files can still be edited. Go to your upload form (accessible from your dashboard under **My uploads**) and save your changes.

>     **After publication**, metadata can still be edited, but files on a published record are immutable. To add or replace files, you must create a new version of the record.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    **After publication**, metadata can still be edited, but files on a published record cannot be edited. To add or replace files, you must create a new version of the record.
```

## Linking Records

??? question "How do I link a CDS publication with the one in arXiv?"

>     Edit your record and scroll to the **Related works** section of the deposit form. Click **Add related work** and fill in the form with:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    Edit your record and scroll to the **Related works** (or use find feature ctrl+F to find the field) section of the deposit form. Click **Add related work** and fill in the form with:
```

    | Field | Value |
    |-------|-------|
    | **Scheme** | *arXiv* |
    | **Identifier** | The arXiv ID, e.g. `2301.00001` |

    ![Adding an arXiv related work](images/add_arxiv_related_id.png)

>     Save the draft and publish. The arXiv entry will appear under "Related works" on the record landing page as a clickable link to arXiv.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Save the draft and publish. The arXiv entry will appear under "Related works" on the record page as a clickable link to arXiv.
```

> ??? question "How do I link a CDS publication with the one in INSPIREHep?"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
??? question "How do I link a CDS publication with the one in INSPIRE-HEP?"
```

    Edit your record and scroll to the **Related works** section of the deposit form. Click **Add related work** and fill in the form with:

    | Field | Value |
    |-------|-------|
    | **Scheme** | *Inspire* |
    | **Identifier** | The numeric INSPIRE literature ID, e.g. `1234567` |

    You can find the INSPIRE literature ID in the URL of the record on [inspirehep.net](https://inspirehep.net): `https://inspirehep.net/literature/<id>`.

    ![Adding an INSPIRE related work](images/add_inspire_related_id.png)

>     Save the draft and publish. The INSPIRE entry will appear under "Related works" on the record landing page as a clickable link to INSPIREHep.

Reviewer 2: more FAQs to cover:

`My upload is "in review" state in my dashboard page, what can I do?`
`I made a mistake in my file. How can I replace the one I already published?`

do you have any other ideas?

>     Save the draft and publish. The INSPIRE entry will appear under "Related works" on the record landing page as a clickable link to INSPIREHep.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Save the draft and publish. The INSPIRE entry will appear under "Related works" on the record page as a clickable link to INSPIRE-HEP.
```

    - Use any format your collaboration prefers.
    - CDS will ensure uniqueness to prevent duplicates.
    - You can re-use the same report number(s) across versions of the record.

    ![Report Number Alternative IDs](images/RN_alternate_ids.jpg)

??? question "Use DOIs instead"

    The new CDS repository follows international open science best practices by assigning **DOIs (Digital Object Identifiers)** to all publications.

    - **Prefix:** `10.17181`
    - **Registration:** All DOIs are registered with [DataCite](https://datacite.org)
    - **Assignment:** Automatic upon publication (or can be reserved in advance)

    !!! tip "Learn More"

        See the [Upload](deposit/upload.md) documentation to learn how to manage DOIs for your uploads.

??? question "What is a DOI?"

    A DOI is a persistent, globally unique identifier for digital objects that:

    - Provides a stable, permanent link to your publication
    - Follows the format `https://doi.org/10.xxxx/xxxxx`
    - Enables reliable citation and discovery across platforms
    - Is recognized worldwide as the standard for scholarly work

## Authors & ORCID

> ??? question "Why don't contributors appear in the citation?"

Reviewer 2: another FAQ comes to mind: 
"Where is the citation data coming from? Why does it have different format depending on resource type?" 

I got this question and we need to explain here that citation is based on the metadata of the record and follows citation standards

    See [Review process](review/review.md) for more details.

??? question "Can I edit a record after submitting it for review or after it is published?"

    **While under review**, both metadata and files can still be edited. Go to your upload form (accessible from your dashboard under **My uploads**) and save your changes.

    **After publication**, metadata can still be edited, but files on a published record cannot be edited. To add or replace files, you must create a new version of the record.

??? question "I made a mistake in my file. How can I replace it after publication?"

    Files on a published record **cannot be edited or replaced directly**. To correct a file, you need to **create a new version** of the record:

    1. Go to **My uploads** on your dashboard and open the published record.
    2. Click **New version**.
    3. Upload the corrected file(s).
    4. Save and publish the new version.

    !!! info "Versioning"

        Each version of a record is preserved and remains accessible. The latest version is shown by default, and all previous versions can be accessed from the **Versions** panel on the record page.

>     See [Published records](deposit/published-records.md) for more details.

Author: @kpsherva can you review again?
